So normally, when we use objects,
I'm just going to make this big,
I don't know if it's annoying
when this repeatedly goes on,
I can just always just pause it,
[LAUGH] if this is like overwhelming.
But, yeah,
normally when we use an object, or
we want to access properties on an object,
we can either use dot notation like we did
here like personal name returns John Doe.
Or when we want to modify it we can do
that instantly as well with dot notation
or with bracket notation.
Now, with the proxy pattern,
we actually use something called a proxy,
which is kind of an object that sits in
between that intercepts those requests and
also intercepts those responses.
So instead of directly changing
the volume person here,
we actually go through that proxy which
invokes the set method on that proxy.
And then the proxy forwards that request
to the target object same with get.
Now luckily, in JavaScript,
it's pretty easy to use proxies
because JavaScript has a built in
proxy object to use the proxy pattern.
Now, the syntax is kinda
like the following,
so this is kind of related
to this person here.
So if we had a person object, the proxy
could look something like, new proxy and
then the person would
just the target object.
So that the object that intercept
the request to forward the request to or
get the responses from.
And then by default, the proxy object
has a lot of built in methods.
Now two of them are getting set, those are
the only ones that I'll cover right now.
But you can just go on MDN and see all the
all the methods that are available now.
And then again,
they also get our arguments properties.
So the first one is, again, target,
so that's a target objects and
then the property that we wanna
get in case we use gets or
that we wanna set if we
are modifying a property.
And also the set has a value which is
the new value that we're changing that
property to.
So for example here,
if we have this person again,
I don't know if I should make
this bigger or not, I'll do that.
So we have a person called John Doe.
And then we create a new person proxy,
which takes that person objects.
And whenever we change it, so
whenever we want to retrieve a value,
maybe we do like person proxy.name,
we get the value of name is John Doe.
Or we wanna set a property,
maybe want to increment the age,
it's like changed age from 42 to 43.
So I'll just, I can show you either in
StackBlitz, I know, I also have it here,
but I can just show it in the browser.
So we can say like personProxy.name.
And then you see that it looks like
the value of name is John Doe.
So this is super nice because it actually
just executed this Get method here.
So if we're like changing a value,
maybe a personProxy.age +=1,
is like change age from 42 to 43,
so this is super nice.
Yeah, so here you see that
we're using the target prop,
we're still using this
bracket notation here.
But there's actually another built
in method that we can use in
JavaScript namely reflect.
So instead of writing it here, the target
property or target a property equals value
and then returning true we can just use
that reflect to get and reflect to set.
Which I find a lot easier to read and
they do the exact same thing.
So with a proxy, it's super easy to
add functionality to a certain object.
Maybe every time that we're changing
a value we want to, I don't know,
send something to analytics like,
hey, this is now changed.
Or the more I think useful case
of proxy is to add validation.
I often use it for validation when I
wanna make sure that if we're changing
a property, it's either always
string if it's a username.
Or it's a number when
we're changing the age or
maybe the age shouldn't be lower than 18,
all those things.
It's also super easy to log things like
we just saw with this one, every time
we accessed it, we sent a log to the
console with the value that we changed.
So if you ever need to debug anything,
this is definitely a super nice way to
do that to see what are we changing?
What is the target object?
And what are we changing it to?
Now of course, like a big trade out, or
at least something to keep in mind is
that those methods run every time
they interact with the target object.
So if you have a pretty long execution of
those things, maybe, like I said before,
we send it to analytics and
this takes, I don't know,
even just like one second to send there.
This could definitely lead to performance
issues cuz we don't wanna have to wait
every time we interact with an object,
it has to be instant.
But there's so many things you can do to
make sure that it still goes faster like,
it's asynchronous, all those things.
So that's not too big of an issue but
definitely something to keep in mind.
So every time when we interact with
target object those methods run, so
make sure to keep them small and fast.
Okay, so to get started, [LAUGH] okay
this looks a bit scary, but it's not.
So to get the exercise about the proxy,
what we have here is that we have
an object and
we want to add some validation to it.
So you can see the validation
requirements here.
So the user name has to be a string
that only contains two letters, so
it cannot be a string that's 1,
2, 3, hello or something and
it needs to be at least
three characters long.
The email also has to be
a valid email address.
Now I've already add some
validators to this file so
you don't need to like
validate it yourself.
You can just like invoke that
is valid email function.
Also there is all letters for
the username to make sure that
it only contains letters.
And for the age,
has to be number at least 18.
And to add some logging to it, so
not just validation but also logging.
You should change the output to include
the dates when it was logged and
then the value of that property is
this new property or forget, so
the value of this property is this value.
I just have like a quick example here.
>> Could you restate the best use
cases of proxy pattern again?
>> Yeah, they're are certain,
so we have validation logging,
formatting notifications and debugging.
But for me,
the most useful one is definitely for
validation like we do in this exercise.
If the object that we are interacting
with, if we modify it and
we have to make sure that it
always has certain data types.
Maybe because our database expects it,
so when you need it to be
string it needs to be a number.
We wanna make sure that we cannot
accidentally change it to an invalid type.
Of course with TypeScript that's a bit
harder, which is great with TypeScript.
But this is a much better way to do
that at runtime to make sure that, yeah,
we don't change it in any unexpected ways.
I've got it, yeah, I also like it for
just logging, like I said here,
if you ever need to know the time
at which something was logged,
you can just add that
to the get method here.
Like we did like the value of prop,
maybe we just, yeah.
In this exercise, we're adding a new date,
so you will see the outcome of that.